feat: collect block number, timestamp, and eth diffs on diffs page (#270)
ethereum-optimism/community-hub: src/docs/developers/l2/differences.md

| Opcode  | Hex | Behavior |
| - | - | - |
| `L1BLOCKNUMBER` | 0x4B | Returns the block number of the last L1 block known by the L2 system. Typically this block number will lag by up to 15 minutes behind the actual latest L1 block number. See section on [Block Numbers and Timestamps](#block-numbers-and-timestamps) for more information. |

## Block Numbers and Timestamps

### Block production is not constant

On Ethereum, the `NUMBER` opcode (`block.number` in Solidity) corresponds to the current Ethereum block number.
Similarly, in Optimistic Ethereum, `block.number` corresponds to the current L2 block number.
However, as of the OVM 2.0 release of Optimistic Ethereum (Nov. 2021), **each transaction on L2 is placed in a separate block and blocks are NOT produced at a constant rate.**

This is important because it means that `block.number` is currently NOT a reliable source of timing information.
If you want access to the current time, you should use `block.timestamp` (the `TIMESTAMP` opcode) instead.

> ### Timestamp lags by up to 15 minutes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### TIMESTAMP lags by up to 15 minutes
```

Reviewer: or else 
```suggestion
### The timestamp lags by up to 15 minutes
```

Note that `block.timestamp` is pulled automatically from the latest L1 block seen by the L2 system.
L2 currently waits for about 15 minutes (~50 confirmations) before the L1 block is accepted.
As a result, the timestamp may lag behind the current time by up to 15 minutes.

### Accessing the latest L1 block number

> The block number of the latest L1 block seen by the L2 system can be accessed via the `L1BLOCKNUMBER` opcode (0x4B).

Reviewer: IIRC there was some discussion about not wanting to encourage using this opcode.

The predeploy is there, I think that's sufficient.

Solidity doesn't make it easy to use non-standard opcodes, so we've created a simple contract located at [`0x4200000000000000000000000000000000000013`](https://optimistic.etherscan.io/address/0x4200000000000000000000000000000000000013) that will allow you to trigger this opcode.

You can use this contract as follows:

> ```solidity

Reviewer: is solidity highlighting recognized by whatever renders this?

Author: Yep!

import { Lib_PredeployAddresses } from "@eth-optimism/contracts/libraries/constants/Lib_PredeployAddresses.sol";

contract MyContract {
   function myFunction() public {
      // ... your code here ...

      uint256 l1BlockNumber = iOVM_L1BlockNumber(
         Lib_PredeployAddresses.L1_BLOCK_NUMBER // located at 0x4200000000000000000000000000000000000013
      ).getL1BlockNumber();

      // ... your code here ...
   }
}
```

## Using ETH in Contracts

As of the OVM 2.0 update (Nov. 2021), **the process of using ETH on L2 is identical to the process of using ETH in Ethereum.**
Please note that ETH was previously accessible as an ERC20 token, but this feature has been removed as part of OVM 2.0.

For tooling developers and infrastructure providers, please note that ETH is still represented internally as an ERC20 token at the address [`0xDeadDeAddeAddEAddeadDEaDDEAdDeaDDeAD0000`](https://optimistic.etherscan.io/address/0xDeadDeAddeAddEAddeadDEaDDEAdDeaDDeAD0000).
As a result, user balances will always be zero inside the state trie and the user's actual balance will be stored in the aforementioned token's storage.

> **You are NOT able to use this contract directly (will throw an error).**

Reviewer: Minor improvement:

```suggestion
**It is NOT possible to call this contract directly, it will throw an error.**
```
